2026.7: Add section about RPi firmware update entity (#46477)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2026-07-01-release-20267.markdown

[@jpbede]: https://github.com/jpbede

### Keeping your Raspberry Pi firmware up to date

Running Home Assistant Operating System on a Raspberry Pi? You are in good company: per our public, opt-in [analytics](https://analytics.home-assistant.io/), the Raspberry Pi platform currently powers about a third of all installations. As of this release, there is an {% term update "update entity" %} for the Pi's bootloader firmware, also often referred to as the <abbr title="electrically erasable programmable read-only memory">EEPROM</abbr> update. You can keep it current right from {% my updates title="**Settings** > **Updates**" %}, the same place you handle every other update.

> This is more than a nice-to-have. Your Pi's firmware needs to stay compatible with the Linux kernel that ships in Home Assistant Operating System, and as that kernel moves forward, older firmware can start to hold it back. Until now, updating that firmware was cumbersome: you had to flash another SD card with a special image, or connect a keyboard and a display and run the `rpi-eeprom-update` command by hand. Now it is a single selection.

Reviewer: With Yellow with CM4 not being updatable that sounds quite bad. Maybe we can qualify that firmware on Raspberry Pi 5/CM5 is mainly requiring updates?

Reviewer: With the findings in https://github.com/home-assistant/operating-system/issues/4811#issuecomment-4782395985 the 6.18 compatibility issue was really a mishap/bug on Raspberry Pi's part. They did not intend such a breakage.

It seems that Raspberry Pi still tries to maintain backwards compatibility as much as possible.  With this in mind I softened the language a bit in the paragraph above and dropped this paragraph entirly.

<img src='/images/blog/2026-07/temp-rpi-firmware-update.png' alt='Screenshot of the Raspberry Pi firmware update entity on the Settings, Updates page.' class='no-shadow' />

A few things to keep in mind:

> - This needs [Home Assistant Operating System 18](https://github.com/home-assistant/operating-system/releases/tag/18.0) or newer and Home Assistant Supervisor 2026.06.0 or newer, which provide the support the update entity builds on. On older versions, the entity simply isn't there.

Reviewer: We don't usually mention Supervisor updates, if users are on the latest Core release they must have the latest Supervisor installed.

```suggestion
- This needs [Home Assistant Operating System 18](https://github.com/home-assistant/operating-system/releases/tag/18.0) or newer, which provide the support the update entity builds on. On older versions, the entity simply isn't there.
```

One caveat though: I've pulled the OS 18.0 release for Raspberry Pi because of that firmware/kernel incompatibility we saw. It is fixed on current dev, and then we could deploy this for Raspberry Pi again. Should we push out 18.1 early next week? 🤔

- On a Raspberry Pi 4, the firmware can only be updated when the board boots from an SD card. If your Pi 4 boots from USB storage, the update isn't available. This is one more reason we recommend using USB only as a data disk and keeping an SD card as the main boot device.

> - Not every board can update its firmware this way. Where an update can't be applied, the entity doesn't appear at all, so you shouldn't see an option that wouldn't work.

Reviewer: Can we maybe name the boards?

One thing we should mention is that Yellow with CM5 receive updates, but Yellow with CM4 not. I think this is kinda important distinction.

> - After the update is applied, Home Assistant prompts you to reboot the board to finish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After the update is applied, Home Assistant prompts you to reboot your system to complete the update.
```
